(GH-1465) Add glossary of bolt terms (#2989)
puppetlabs/bolt: documentation/glossary.md

📖 **Related information**

- [`apply` example](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/plan_functions.html#apply)

## apply_prep

Installs the `puppet-agent` package on targets if needed, then collects facts,
including any custom facts found in Bolt's module path.

📖 **Related information**

- [`apply_prep` example](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/plan_functions.html#apply-prep)

## catalog

A catalog is a file that describes the desired state of each managed resource on
a target. It is a compilation of all the resources that the Puppet agent applies
to a given target, as well as the relationships between those resources.

Catalogs are compiled by Bolt from manifests and agent-provided data during an
apply. Bolt then serves the compiled catalog to the agent on a target.

Unlike the manifests from which they are compiled, catalogs don't contain any
conditional logic or functions. They are unambiguous, relevant to only a
specific target, and generated by a target.

📖 **Related information**

- [Catalog compilation](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/subsystem_catalog_compilation.html#subsystem_catalog_compilation)

> ## controller

Author: I believe this is the only term I couldn't find a definition for

Reviewer: It's the 'thing' (computer, VM, container, etc.) running Bolt. I'm not sure on an exact definition here, but @hestonhoffman might have some suggestions.

Reviewer 2: How about:
> The device you're using to run Bolt. This could be a laptop, a virtual machine, a container,
or even a network device or Raspberry Pi!

included in modules.

📖 **Related information**

- [Bolt built-in functions](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/plan_functions.html)
- [Puppet built-in functions](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/7/function.html)
- [More information on custom functions](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/7/writing_custom_functions.html)

## future

A future is a custom data type in Bolt. 

A future object is returned by the `background()` [plan function](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/plan_functions.html#background) 
and can be passed to the `wait()` [plan function](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/plan_functions.html#wait)
to block on the result of the backgrounded code block.

📖 **Related information**

- [Background function](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/plan_functions.html#background)
- [Future custom type](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/bolt_types_reference.html#future)

## group

A group is a set of targets and other groups in the inventory and their
associated configuration. Groups provide a way for you to refer to targets
that share a common trait by a simple, human-readable name.

📖 **Related information**

> - [Inventory files](inventory_file_v2.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Inventory files](inventory_files.md)
```

# Glossary

Definitions of terms used in Bolt documentation.

## agent

The Puppet agent software package, also known as `puppet-agent`.

## apply

> `Apply` is used to apply a block of manifest code to the targets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use an`apply` function to apply a block of Puppet code (known as a manifest block) to a target.
```

> Applying manifest code requires facts to compile a catalog. Targets must also
> have the Puppet agent package installed to apply manifest code. To prep targets
> for an apply, call the `apply_prep` function before the apply function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you can apply a manifest to a target, prepare the target using
the `apply_prep` function. See [`apply_prep`](#apply-prep).
```

📖 **Related information**

> - [`apply` example](plan_functions.md#apply)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Applying Puppet code](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/applying_manifest_blocks.html)
- [`apply` example](plan_functions.md#apply)
- [Applying Puppet code in YAML plans](writing_yaml_plans.html#applying-puppet-code-from-puppet-forge-modules)
```

## apply_prep

> Installs the `puppet-agent` package on targets if needed, then collects facts,
> including any custom facts found in Bolt's module path.
> 
> 📖 **Related information**
> 
> - [`apply_prep` example](plan_functions.md#apply-prep)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Installs the `puppet-agent` package on targets if needed and collects facts,
including any custom facts found in Bolt's module path. The `puppet-agent`
package and facts are required for an `apply`.

📖 **Related information**

- [Applying Puppet code](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/applying_manifest_blocks.html)
- [`apply_prep` example](plan_functions.md#apply-prep)
```

## catalog

A catalog is a file that describes the desired state of each managed resource on
a target. It is a compilation of all the resources that the Puppet agent applies
to a given target, as well as the relationships between those resources.

> Catalogs are compiled by Bolt from manifests and agent-provided data during an
> apply. Bolt then serves the compiled catalog to the agent on a target.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bolt compiles catalogs from manifests and agent-provided data during an
apply. Bolt then serves the compiled catalog to the agent on a target.
```

Unlike the manifests from which they are compiled, catalogs don't contain any
conditional logic or functions. They are unambiguous, relevant to only a
specific target, and generated by a target.

📖 **Related information**

- [Catalog compilation](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/subsystem_catalog_compilation.html#subsystem_catalog_compilation)

## controller

A controller is any device that you use to run Bolt. Bolt runs on almost anything,
so this could be a laptop, a virtual machine, a container, or even a network
device or Raspberry Pi!

## fact

A fact is a piece of information about a target, such as its hostname, IP
address, or operating system.

## Facter

Facter is a system inventory tool. Facter reads facts about a target, such as
its hostname, IP address, and operating system, and makes them available to
Bolt.

> Facter includes many built-in facts, and you can view their names and values for
> a particular node by running `facter` on the target's command line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Facter includes many built-in facts, and you can view the names and values for
a particular node by running `facter` on the target's command line.
```

## function

Plans can use functions that are built into Bolt and Puppet, or custom functions
included in modules.

📖 **Related information**

- [Bolt built-in functions](plan_functions)
- [Puppet built-in functions](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/7/function.html)
- [More information on custom functions](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/7/writing_custom_functions.html)

## future

A future is a custom data type in Bolt. 

> A future object is returned by the `background()` [plan function](plan_functions.#background) 
> and can be passed to the `wait()` [plan function](plan_functions.md#wait)
> to block on the result of the backgrounded code block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A future object is returned by the `background()` plan function
and can be passed to the `wait()` plan function
to block on the result of the backgrounded code block.
```

📖 **Related information**

> - [Background function](plan_functions.md#background)
> - [Future custom type](bolt_types_reference.md#future)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Background function](plan_functions.md#background)
- [Wait function](plan_functions.md#wait)
- [Future custom type](bolt_types_reference.md#future)
```

Bolt makes it easy to manage the modules that your project depends on. You can
use Bolt commands to install a project's modules, add new modules to a project,
and view the modules that are available to the project.

📖 **Related information**

- [Modules](modules.md)
- [Installing modules](bolt_installing_modules.md)
- [Module structure](module_structure.md)

## modulepath

The modulepath is an ordered list of directories that Bolt loads modules from.
When Bolt runs a command, it automatically loads modules from the modulepath.

While Bolt has a default modulepath, you can also configure your own modulepath,
which can include directories within the project or directories elsewhere on
your system. Regardless of whether your project uses a default or configured
modulepath, Bolt automatically adds directories to the modulepath. This includes
modules containing core Bolt content, which is added to the beginning of the
modulepath, and bundled content, which is added to the end of the modulepath.

Modules loaded from a directory listed earlier in the modulepath take precedence
over modules with the same name loaded from a directory later in the modulepath.

> Bolt will not warn or error when two modules share a name and instead will
> ignore modules with a lower precedence.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If Bolt finds two modules with the same name in your modulepath, it
ignores the module with the lower precedence and does not print a warning or error message.
```

## plan

A set of actions that can be combined with other logic.

Plans allow you to do complex operations, such as running multiple actions with
one command, computing values for the input for an action, or running certain
actions based on the results of another action.

> Plans can be written in YAML or in the Puppet language, and can be packaged as
> part of a module or project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can write a plan in YAML or in the Puppet language and package the plan as
part of a module or project.
```

- [Using plug-ins](using_plugins.md)
- [Writing plug-ins](writing_plugins.md)

## project

A Bolt project is a directory that serves as the launching point for Bolt and
allows you to create a shareable orchestration application. Projects typically
include a project configuration file, an inventory file, and any content you use
in your project workflow, such as tasks and plans.

When you run Bolt, it runs in the context of a project. If the directory you run
Bolt from is not a project, Bolt attempts to find a project by traversing the
parent directories. If Bolt is unable to find a project, it runs from the
default project, located at `~/.puppetlabs/bolt`.

A directory is only considered a Bolt project when it has a project
configuration file named `bolt-project.yaml`. Bolt doesn't load project data and
content, including inventory files, unless the data and content are part of a
project.

📖 **Related information**

- [Bolt projects](projects.md)
- [bolt-project.yaml options](bolt_project_reference.md)

## puppetfile

A puppetfile specifies the modules installed in your project. Bolt manages this
file. Avoid editing it.

📖 **Related information**

> - [More common project files & directories](projects.md#common-files-and-directories-in-a-project)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Common project files & directories](projects.md#common-files-and-directories-in-a-project)
```

## target

A target is a device that Bolt connects to and runs actions on. Targets can be
physical, such as servers, or virtual, such as containers or virtual machines.

📖 **Related information**

- [Inventory files](inventory_files.md)

## task

A task is a single action that you run on targets. You use tasks to make
as-needed changes to remote systems.

Tasks are similar to scripts and can be written in any programming language that
can run on the targets, such as Bash, PowerShell, and Python. Tasks are packaged
within modules or projects, so you can reuse, download and share tasks. Tasks
also have metadata that describes the task, validates input, and controls how
the task runner executes the task.

📖 **Related information**

- [Inspecting tasks](inspecting_tasks.md)
- [Running tasks](bolt_running_tasks.md)
- [Writing tasks](writing_tasks.md)

## transport

A transport defines the connection method that Bolt uses to connect to a target.

> ssh, winrm, and local are some of the most commonly used transports.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SSH, WinRM, and local are some of the most commonly used transports.
```

There is a Docker transport that simplifies connecting to Docker containers, 
but the SSH transport is useful for gaining a broader understanding of how Bolt 
inventory files work.

📖 **Related information**

- [Specify a transport](running_bolt_commands.md#specify-a-transport)
- [Transport config options](bolt_transports_reference.md)

## type

The different custom types that can be used in a Bolt plan. 

📖 **Related information**
- [Bolt Types](bolt_types_reference.md)

## type alias 

Type aliases provide an alternate name for existing types or lists of types.
These types can be used within a plan, and have all of the attributes and
functions of whichever Puppet type they are set to in the plan.

📖 **Related information**

> - [More on type aliases](bolt_types_reference.md#type-aliases)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Type aliases](bolt_types_reference.md#type-aliases)
```
